Welcome back in this lesson where you look at nested loops.
So basically a nested loop is a loop inside of a loop and there's a number of reasons why you might
want to create one of these.
And one of them might be that you might want to build a table.
So let's start by setting up our variable doing our documents and get element by ID.
So grab that output.
And this is where we're actually going to place our table.
So the first thing that we need to do is we need to create a whole so just call it H2 Mel.
And this is going to be our starting point for our table.
So we're just going to create a table.
So next thing that we need to do is loop through building out the rows and then within the rows then
we build the columns within those within those rows.
So let's let's build on that and we're going to start with a for loop.
So it's going to start out and we can start creating a variable called row and we're going to start
out at row 0 and we're going to loop that while roll is made let's just do 10 rows.
So we could not we can have as much flexibility as we want when we're building on our table.
That's just what we get dynamically like this.
So now we've got the roll value and we know with each to M-L So we need to incremented and concatenate
it with TR.
So that's going to open up our roll and the next thing that we need within our reach to Mel is we need
to have some cells some table cells.
So this one let's start out and we do see you Al and we'll start at zero and see all while it's less
than 2 and we'll increment by one.
And this is also very important when you're testing these loops to make sure that you declare the values
because otherwise once we finish the first iteration and we try to use this when again the value of
c l will be different.
So keep that in mind when you are setting up the loops that you want to make sure that you're not that
you're not starting out with it.
Now you see you well because otherwise they'll just mess things up.
So next let's in the.
And so this is just her age to now.
So it's Tuesday and we'll put it to some some value in there.
So.
Equals an's put in the value of c out and we're going to adjust that afterwards.
So close off that cell and that's all we need for that part.
And then next we're going to add to that H2 milk and add closing of the royal.
And then finally and lastly let's let's add to the H2.
And let's close off the table
and to put in our two miles to make sure it's interlaced himself and we're just going to have that each
time a variable.
So let's see what happens.
So he built it out and of course we should have some type of borders for ourselves.
So let's let's have some styling here.
So just do a quick order for two days and we'll do border one picks all that.
BLOCK So let's refresh that.
So there we go.
So we will tell you at our table and we can see that within our age to you've got nicely built to call
up table all ready to go within each team.
So now what I want you to do.
So this challenge is going to involve some math.
So I want to do is I want to have the cell one too.
And actually let's update this to have five columns so we're going to make a really big table here.
So five columns starting up one and then finishing off Vought at I believe probably 50.
So starting out at 1 2 so going across this way the next rule will incremented by five or whatever number
of columns we're using an increment increment increment again.
So pause the video.
Open up your editor Bill at this table and then update the contents of the cells.
And also we have a solution coming up.
So we have the opportunity to try that out.
Did you open it up and create five columns and you can see that now how easy it is when you're looping
through these nested rows if all of a sudden I want five columns.
It's as easy as that.
So the value that we're putting in with in the cell we've got to do some math here.
So if we want to increment by one because we're starting at 0 and we're looping till we get to 5.
It was a number of options here.
We could update this and update this one as well.
So for myself I generally like to start at zero and loop till it's under 5 so that I can really easily
see that number five there if I want to make an adjustment to it.
And it's a lot easier if I want to do something dynamic where I ask a number of rows number of columns
and I can just use variables in there.
So it makes it more dynamic and that's usually why I want to keep it within this type of format.
And I would rather add the one to the values ceil over here and just in that part.
So let's try that.
So now we've got one two three four five but this one's not right so we need to do something else here.
So we need to actually do some multiplication.
So if we multiply this by the value of roll let's see what happens.
So we refresh it and we've got one two three four five.
We've got two four six eight ten.
So that's not really great.
All this is incrementing this way.
It's not actually working the way that we need to.
So to work this out the trick that I usually like to do is I'll just like to put the value for all so
that I can get a clear sense of what we're looking at here.
So multiplying by zero and we know multiply by zero we end up with zero.
So we don't want to do that.
So we want to add 1 to the role as well.
So the same thing we do with the column we showed it to the roll.
So let's see what happens now.
So now we've got roll one all the way to 10 and we see that we've got all of those cells there.
So that looks pretty good.
And we know that we should multiply.
So to get the value of six here if we multiply the roll by the number of columns that we have then where
it should start out at 6 but the other thing to keep in mind if we do two times five we're going to
be at 10 which will be 11.
And that's the next one over here.
So we don't actually need that plus one and all you need to do is multiply it by five.
Let's try that.
Now so now we've got one two three four five and then we've got one and if we do one plus five then
we've got the right number.
So let's remove this concatenation here and try this again.
And we see what's happening now is it looks like it's working right.
But these aren't actually numbers because these values are being treated as separate values.
So we're not actually adding them together in order to add them together.
All we're doing originally we're concatenating them.
So the idea to add it together that second round in bracket and there we go.
So that's a solution to the challenge.
One two three four five six seven eight nine ten.
All the way to 50 so other reasons to use nested loops.
You could also use them when you're building out multi dimensional arrays and the idea is the same thing
as we've just done with the with table but this is more conceptual where we've got multiple items here
within the array.
And that way we can build those as well.
So take a look at building up tables make some adjustments play around with it.
I try to make these as dynamic variables and in the next lesson where you look at break and continue
within loops.
That's coming up.